  In Letter to Rumsfeld, 
Lautenberg Expresses Concern Over Number of U.S. Casualties Since Administration Declared 'Mission 
Accomplished' Calls on Admin. to Level with American People on Duration and Cost of Mission Wednesday, 
to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, 
United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg expressed his concerns over the lack of a post war strategy 
in Iraq in light of the number of casualties the U.S. has sustained since President Bush declared 
combat operations over. Lautenberg, a supporter of Operation Iraqi Freedom, wrote to Rumsfeld 
requesting he share with Congress and the American people the Administration's strategic plan 
for post-Saddam Iraq. "On May 1, President Bush announced the formal end of "combat operations"; 
he told the American people and members of Congress that the military objectives of Operation Iraqi 
Freedom had been met. Yet since that time, 63 additional U.S. service men have died in Iraq," wrote 
Lautenberg. One third of all US casualties in Iraq have occurred after May 1st, which has worried 
Lautenberg that this upward casualty trend will continue, and is indicative of incomplete defeat 
of the Iraqi opposition. "I request that you share with members of Congress and the American people 
the Administration's strategic plan for this current era of post-regime Iraq, and that this plan 
include detailed figures of projected force deployment for the next 12 months. I believe that the 
absence of a public post-conflict plan has led to confusion and misperceptions among the American 
people regarding the magnitude of the military operations necessary in Iraq," Lautenberg wrote. 
Lautenberg also expressed his hope that Rumsfeld and the Administration would level with the American 
people about the duration U.S. forces will serve in Iraq, as well as the estimated military and reconstruction 
costs of this mission. The entire text of Lautenberg's letter is attached to this release. July 
01, 2003 Donald H. Rumsfeld Secretary of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 
Dear Secretary Rumsfeld: As a Senator who supported Operation Iraqi Freedom, I now write to you 
to express my concerns regarding this post-conflict period. On May 1, President Bush announced 
the formal end of "combat operations"; he told the American people and members of Congress that 
the military objectives of Operation Iraqi Freedom had been met. Yet since that time, 63 additional 
U.S. service men have died in Iraq. This past week, intensified attacks on U.S. troops precipitated 
Operation Sidewinder and Operation Desert Scorpion and other military efforts to defeat the remaining 
oppositional insurgents. Indeed, with 1/3 of U.S. total casualties in Iraq occurring since May 
1, I am worried that this upward casualty trend will continue and that U.S. forces â serving in an 
insecure and unstable country â will sustain further losses. These recent events suggest that 
a comprehensive military strategy is immediately required to successfully defeat Iraqi insurgents 
who oppose the Coalition Provision Authority (CPA). This plan must, as its primary objective, 
aim to enhance the security and rule of law for Iraqis. I request that you share with members of Congress 
and the American people the Administration's strategic plan for this current era of post-regime 
Iraq, and that this plan include detailed figures of projected force deployment for the next 12 
months. I believe that the absence of a public post-conflict plan has led to confusion and misperceptions 
among the American people regarding the magnitude of the military operations necessary in Iraq. 
Retired Army General Eric Shinseki expressed his belief last February that military planners 
had underestimated the necessary troop size required to successfully invade and secure Iraq. 
He recommended at least 300,000 U.S. service men and women to achieve the intended objectives. 
With only 150,000 U.S. service men and women currently on the ground in Iraq, I believe that our troops 
need immediate reinforcements, both to increase their numbers and to relieve active duty service 
men and women. We should invite international troops from coalition countries to join our forces, 
to boost morale and to provide needed expertise in military policing and other civil reconstruction 
work. It is vital that the Administration carefully communicate its plan for stabilizing post-war 
Iraq to American people. This plan must include the Pentagon's estimate of the duration of the current 
U.S. force deployment as well as the estimated military and reconstruction costs. Both issues 
directly affect the American taxpayers and the families of service men and women deployed at home 
and abroad. In addition, I am concerned that though independent think tanks have calculated the 
projected costs of the reconstruction efforts that range from $5-$20 billion over the next year, 
the Administration has not yet relayed to Congress and to the public what the financial costs of 
this war will be. I look forward to hearing from you in response to these concerns. Sincerely, Frank 
R. Lautenberg  
