  Lautenberg Introduces 
Legislation To Better Protect Nation From Oil Spills As Valdez Oil Spill is Considered in Supreme 
Court, N.J. Sen.'s New Bills Would Modernize Fuel Tanks, Tracking, Help Prevent Spills 
 Senator Frank R, Lautenberg 
(D-NJ), Chair of the Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee of the Senate Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, introduced legislation to better protect Americas 
shoresand its economyfrom the deadly and toxic effects of oil spills. The last thing America needs 
is another Exxon Valdez. We cannot let our coastlines, our wildlife or our economy suffer the catastrophic 
effects of another oil spill, said Lautenberg. My bill would modernize our vessels, tracking and 
licensing, so we can be more confident in the safety of our ocean shipping and help prevent future 
spills. Lautenberg introduced the legislation while chairing a hearing of his subcommittee  
on better protection from oil spills. It would: require double hulls on bunker fuel tanks on non-tank 
vessels; strengthen the Coast Guard medical review process for licensing pilots and merchant 
mariners; direct the Coast Guard to make improvements to its vessel tracking system to prevent 
navigational errors and accidents; and phase out federal liability limits for oil spills from 
single-hull tanker ships. The Senators second bill would raise federal liability limits for oil 
spills, and phase them out altogether for single-hull tanker ships, similar to legislation he 
proposed in 2004. Since the Exxon Valdez spill in 1989, oil spills continue to affect American shores. 
In November 2004, the oil tanker Athos I spilled 265,000 gallons of Venezuelan crude oil into the 
Delaware River near Paulsboro, New Jersey. In November 2007, the Cosco Busan, a 900-foot container 
ship capable of carrying in excess of one million gallons of fuel, struck the San Francisco Bay Bridge 
and spilled 53,569 gallons of heavy fuel oil into the bay.In January, a ship collision resulted 
in an oil spill in Port Newark, briefly closing the port channel. Sen. Lautenberg has been a long-time 
advocate of improved protections from oil spills. He was a champion of the Oil Pollution Prevention 
Act of 1990, the most comprehensive piece of legislation regarding oil spills, and created new 
2006 federal requirements including higher spill cost liability limits for single-hull ships 
and Congressional creation of the Delaware River Oil Spill Advisory Commission. Questions 

