  Lautenberg, Lieberman 
Along With Other Senators and Environmental Advocates Announce Measure to STOP Republican Attempts 
to Drill in Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Wednesday, March 5, 2003 WASHINGTON, DC - United States 
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) was joined this afternoon by Senators Joe Lieberman (D-CT), 
Russ Feingold (D-WI), Richard Durbin (D-Il) and Mark Dayton (D-MN), along with a number of environmental 
advocates to announce their legislation to stop oil-drilling from going forward in Alaska's Arctic 
National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). "From day one, this Administration has allowed big corporations 
to run this nation's energy and environmental policy," said Lautenberg. "It is bad enough the Bush 
Administration has rolled back the clock on clean air and drinking water, now they want to start 
drilling for oil in a natural habitat which has been protected since President Eisenhower decided 
to do so." The bill Lautenberg is supporting would place the coastal plain of ANWR off-limits to 
oil development by designating it as federal wilderness area. The bill would thwart the President 
and the Republican Leadership's plan to use the federal budget process to authorize drilling in 
that environmentally sensitive section of Alaska. In his remarks at the press conference, Lautenberg 
noted that a letter sent to the President and signed by over 500 scientists and natural resource 
managers warned that drilling in the Artic Refuge would unavoidably endanger the fragile coastal 
plain ecosystem. "No one believes the U.S. will solve its energy problems by drilling for more oil 
in Alaska, but that's the argument the President and the Republican Leadership continue to use. 
It's absurd," said Lautenberg. "We must focus our efforts on finding cleaner, safer fuel alternatives, 
making this country less reliant on oil. Drilling in the Arctic Refuge does nothing to move us forward, 
it only feeds our addiction for more foreign and domestic oil." This legislation comes on the heels 
of a National Academies of Sciences (NAS) report released Wednesday which is expected to demonstrate 
the negative impacts of oil development in the Northern slope of Alaska. 

