 
Calls on DC Air National Guard to Suspend All Training Operations in New Jersey Suspension Requested 
Until Investigation of Little Egg Harbor Incident is Complete Friday, November 5, 2004 NEWARK 
-- In a letter  to Major General David F. Wherley, Jr., the Commanding General of the District 
of Columbia National Guard, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) requested immediate suspension 
of all activities by the DC Air National Guard in New Jersey until an investigation of the Wednesday 
night incident is completed. Lautenberg also asked the General for a meeting to discuss the circumstances 
surrounding the F-16 attack on Little Egg Harbor Intermediate School. In the letter to General 
Wherley, Lautenberg stated: "The actions of the pilot -- whether accidental or not -- are totally 
incomprehensible, and I therefore ask that the District of Columbia Air National Guard suspend 
all training operations in the state of New Jersey until this matter has been fully investigated." 
While practice missions at the Warren Grove Gunnery Range have been temporarily suspended, it 
is unclear if the DC Air National Guard -- whose primary mission is to patrol Washington, DC -- will 
continue to train in and around New Jersey. Lautenberg also wrote the General: "I ask that your prompt 
review produce a complete explanation of the circumstances, including a remedy that will absolutely 
guarantee that nothing like this can ever happen again." November 5, 2004 Major General David F. 
Wherley, Jr. Commanding General District of Columbia National Guard 2001 East Capital Street 
SE Washington, DC 20003 Dear Major General Wherley, I am writing to express my alarm about the incident 
that occurred on Wednesday evening, when an F-16 fighter jet, assigned to the 113th Wing of the District 
of Columbia Air National Guard, fired at least twenty-five 20mm rounds at the Little Egg Harbor 
Intermediate School in Little Egg Harbor, New Jersey. The actions of the pilot -- whether accidental 
or not -- are totally incomprehensible, and I therefore ask that the District of Columbia Air National 
Guard suspend all training operations in the state of New Jersey until this matter has been fully 
investigated. I ask that your prompt review produce a complete explanation of the circumstances, 
including a remedy that will absolutely guarantee that nothing like this can ever happen again. 
In the meantime, I would like to meet with you, Brigadier General Duane J. Lodrige, Commander of 
the District of Columbia Air National Guard, and Colonel Linda K. McTague, the Commander of the 
113th Wing, at the earliest possible time to discuss this incident. Your timely response would 
be appreciated. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg cc: Brigadier General Duane J. Lodrige 
Colonel Linda K. McTague  
