  Lautenberg, Lawmakers 
Call on Bush Admin. to Immediately Stop Illegal Medicare Propaganda Ad Blitz GAO Concludes Its 
Legal Inquiry Wednesday, February 11, 2004 WASHINGTON, D.C. â United States Senator Frank R. 
Lautenberg (D-NJ) , called on Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tommy Thompson to 
stop the current Medicare prescription drug advertising campaign until the General Accounting 
Office (GAO) finishes with its inquiry into whether the ads are in fact illegal as Lautenberg and 
other lawmakers have charged. GAO officially opened a legal inquiry into the Medicare ads on Monday 
as a result of a request by Senator Lautenberg last week. GAO has opened a legal inquiry into the question 
of whether the Bush Administration's Medicare publicity efforts violate a law that prohibits 
the Executive Branch from using taxpayer dollars to produce materials for "propaganda or publicity" 
purposes. The amount of taxpayer funds at stake here equals $22.6 million. The misleading flyer 
that the administration is planning to send out to 36 million Americans on Medicare will cost $10 
million dollars. An additional $12.6 million dollars is being spent on print and television ads. 
"We think the facts and law are clear â this is a propaganda effort with taxpayer dollars in violation 
of the law. I am all for educating seniors, but I will always stand firm against misleading people 
on Medicare," said Senator Lautenberg. In the letter to Secretary Thompson lawmakers wrote, "Given 
that at least $22.6 million in public funds are at stake, we believe it is imperative that you stop 
the advertising campaign immediately and withhold the printing and mailing of the flyer. While 
there are a variety of remedies available against your agency for illegally appropriating public 
funds, it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to fully recover millions of taxpayer dollars 
after they are spent." The letter to Secretary Thompson, demanding he halt the ad campaign immediately 
in light of the GAO inquiry, was signed by 73 members of Congress. The letter, along with other materials, 
are attached to the release. "If the Bush-Cheney campaign wants to spend over $20 million dollars 
touting the new Medicare law, that's their prerogative â but they cannot use government agencies 
and taxpayer funds to do it," Lautenberg said. To find additional information on the subject of 
the HHS Medicare ad campaign go to the following link: http://www.lautenberg.senate.gov/medicare.html 
 
