  Lautenberg, McCaskill 
Introduce Legislation To Keep Dangerously Heavy and Large Trucks Off America's Roads Bill Would 
Protect Safety of Nation's Families by Limiting the Weight and Size of Trucks on Roads 
 
Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) introduced a bill to keep dangerously heavy 
and large truck off the nations roads. The Senators bill would keep the current limit of 80,000 pounds 
for tractor trailer trucks on Interstate highways in place and establish a maximum length of 53 
feet for trucks, both of which will improve safety and prevent excessive strain on the nations roads, 
tunnels and bridges. Last years tragic bridge collapse in Minneapolis demonstrated how fragile 
our already-deficient bridges and roads are, and we should not be putting even heavier trucks on 
them. But that is exactly what some trucking company interests are proposing-- even bigger and 
heavier trucks on our roads. If there was ever a recipe for disaster, this is it, Senator Frank R. 
Lautenberg said. Our bill would protect our infrastructure and improve safety on our roads by helping 
keep dangerously large and heavy tractor-trailer trucks off of them. It defies common sense to 
let big trucks become super-giant trucks. Missouri drivers are already stressed by the presence 
of so many big trucks, McCaskill said. There are safety considerations along with the reality of 
increased fuel costs that require us to say no to even bigger commercial trucks on our roads. The 
bill being reintroduced  would extend the current weight limit and freeze on triple-trailers 
to the entire 160,000-mile National Highway System (NHS), while still allowing exemptions, including 
for firefighting equipment. The NHS includes both Interstate highways and smaller national highways, 
and is critical to the nations economy, defense and mobility. Senator Lautenbergs bill was first 
introduced in 2003. After winning a key Committee vote on the bill, trucking companies backed off 
their efforts to allow bigger trucks on the nations roads. Lautenberg also wrote the original law 
that limiting the spread of triple-trailer trucks to only a handful of states. Bigger trucksboth 
heavier and longer onespresent safety risks, including longer stopping distances, bigger risk 
of rollover and a greater risk of the last trailer swaying into the adjacent lane. Research shows 
that a 100,000-pound truck with unadjusted brakes travels 25 percent further after the driver 
steps on the brakes than an 80,000-pound truck. Big trucks also pose threats to Americas infrastructure. 
Heavy trucks contribute to bridge fatigue and bridge damage. The Department of Transportation 
(DOT) recently reported that 158,428 of the nations 594,101 bridges are structurally deficient 
or functionally obsolete. In addition, one 110,000-pound triple trailer causes as much pavement 
damage as 13,981 mini-vans. In 2006, 4,995 people died and 106,000 were injured in traffic accidents 
involving a large truck. A section-by-section summary of the bill is below. Section-By-Section 
Summary of the Safe Truck and Operations and Preservation (STOP) Act of 2008 Section 1. Section 
1 would designate the short title of the bill as the Safe Truck and Operations and Preservations 
Act. Section 2. Section 2 would limit the operation of restricted property-carrying units that 
is longer than 53 feet on the National Highway System (NHS), unless the operation of such unit is 
authorized by the State on June 1, 2003, and in actual and lawful operation on a regular or periodic 
basis, including seasonal operations, on or before that date. The Secretary of Transportation 
would be required to publish a list of restricted property-carrying units. Fire-fighting units 
would be exempt. Section 3. Section 3 would permit a commercial motor vehicle combination authorized 
in a State to continue to operate on the NHS provided it is in compliance with State law, including 
routing-specific and configuration-specific designations and all other restrictions in force 
in the State on June 1, 2003. Section 4. Section 4 would codify and freeze all grandfather rights. 
The Secretary of Transportation would be required to publish a list, by route, commodity and weight, 
of all truck operations permitted in excess of the Federal Interstate weight limit. Congress would 
have jurisdiction over proposals for any new exceptions. Section 5. Section 5 would require the 
Secretary of Transportation to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to define the term vehicles and 
loads which cannot easily be dismantled or divided. Section 6. Section 6 would permit the Secretary 
of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, to waive or limit the application 
of a Federal vehicle weight limit with respect to a highway route during a period of national emergency 
in order to respond to the effects of the national emergency. Section 7. Section 7 would freeze truck 
weight limits on the NHS at 80,000 pounds except on those specific sections of highway where higher 
weights are already permitted. It would codify existing exceptions to the 80,000-pound limit, 
and give Congress jurisdiction over proposals for any further exceptions. 

