  Senate Panel Passes 
Two Lautenberg Bills To Improve Maritime Safety, Environmental Protection N.J. Sen.'s Bills 
Would Help Prevent Oil Spills, Fund Federal Maritime Program 
, the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, 
Science and Transportation approved two bills introduced by Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) to 
improve the safety of our nations maritime industry. The first bill would better protect Americas 
shoresand its economyfrom the deadly and toxic effects of oil spills by requiring new ship fuel 
tank designs, strengthening medical review programs for merchant mariners, and improving Coast 
Guard vessel tracking systems. The second would reauthorize federal maritime programs carried 
out by the Maritime Administration (MARAD), an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
The last thing America needs is another Exxon Valdez, and the last thing New Jersey needs is another 
Athos I. We cannot let our coastlines, our wildlife or our economy suffer the catastrophic effects 
of another oil spill, said Sen. Lautenberg, chairman of the Commerce Committees Subcommittee 
Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Safety, Security, and Infrastructure. These bills 
bring us closer to modernizing ship designs and harbor operations, making us more confident in 
the safety of our ocean shipping system. Sen. Lautenberg introduced his oil spill prevention legislation 
in March at a Subcommittee hearing exploring the recent Cosco Busan spill in San Francisco Bay in 
late 2007 and potential improvements to ship designs and operations. His bill, the Oil Spill Prevention 
Act of 2008 (S.2699), would: require improved fuel tank designs on non-tank vessels, including 
double-layer protective fuel tank designs; strengthen the Coast Guard medical review process 
for licensing pilots and merchant mariners; direct the Coast Guard to make improvements to its 
vessel tracking system to prevent navigational errors and accidents; and improve collaboration 
between the National Transportation Safety Board and state maritime regulatory agencies and 
commissions in accident investigations. Several of these measures were highlighted following 
the Cosco Busan oil spill in San Francisco Bay in 2007. Over 58,000 gallons of fuel oil spilled from 
that ship and wreaked havoc on the environment and the regions economy. The shipwhich was not an 
oil tankerhad fuel tanks capable of carrying 2 million gallons of heavy-duty bunker fuel oil. According 
to the U.S. Coast Guard, non-tank vessels and fishing vessels now account for the highest number 
of spill incidents between 1973 and 2004. His second bill would authorize MARAD funding for FY 2009. 
It would also: authorize the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USSMA) in Kings Point, N.Y. to hire adjunct 
professors to make up for potential staffing shortfalls; require the USMMA to prescribe a policy 
on sexual harassment and sexual violence similar to the policies at the military academies; authorize 
increased financial assistance for cadets at state maritime academies; and streamline grant 
procedures through the Small Shipyard Assistance program and extend the federal marine war risk 
insurance program. MARAD administers U.S. merchant marine support programs, including operation 
of the USSMA, to promote the development and maintenance of an adequate, well-balanced U.S. merchant 
marine sufficient to carry the nations waterborne freight, and capable of service as a naval and 
military auxiliary in time of war or national emergency. MARAD programs also promotes adequate 
shipbuilding and repair services, efficient ports, effective intermodal water and land transportation 
systems, and reserve shipping capacity for use in time of national emergency. Sen. Lautenberg 
has had a long history of involvement in maritime safety and oil spill prevention. He was an original 
cosponsor of the landmark Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and authored changes to the law in 2006 to require 
polluters to pay more of their spill damage costs if the spill involved a single-hulled ship rather 
than a double-hulled one. This year, Sen. Lautenberg was named to the Board of Visitors of the U.S. 
Merchant Marine Academy.  
