  Lautenberg Measure 
To Keep New Jersey Children Covered By Health Insurance Passes Key Senate Committee N.J. Sen.'s 
Amendment Would Override Illegal Bush Administration Policies that Threaten Health Care of 8,000 
Children in New Jersey Friday, DC A measure introduced by U.S. Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) designed to make sure 8,000 New Jersey 
children can have access to health care passed a key Senate committee yesterday. The Lautenberg 
language is meant to counteract the Bush Administrations so-called August 17 directive. The measure 
has the support of Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ). President Bushs illegal and misguided policy 
jeopardizes health care for thousands of New Jerseys children, and it must be stopped. We should 
be making it easier for children to see a doctor and get the medicine they need to stay healthy, not 
harder, Sen. Lautenberg said. My amendment is critical to protect our families in New Jersey, and 
we will continue to fight until it becomes law. Over the past year, weve stood up time and time again 
in the face of cold-hearted attacks that target childrens health coverage in high-cost of living 
states like ours, said Sen. Menendez. Especially in these times when so many are struggling to make 
ends meet, we cannot take away coverage from those who fall in the gap between Medicaid and private 
health insurance. Senator Lautenbergs work in the Appropriations Committee is a big victory for 
the children of New Jersey, and we will stand up together to keep his amendment in the bill when it 
comes to the Senate floor. Lautenberg inserted his language into a section of the Emergency Supplemental 
that also includes critical domestic priorities such as a new G.I. bill for Americas veterans and 
an extension of unemployment benefits. The Supplemental bill was marked up by the Senate Appropriations 
committee, of which Lautenberg is a member. It will next be considered on the Senate floor, possibly 
as early as next week. New Jersey has thousands of children enrolled in the states Family Care program 
whose coverage would be threatened by the Bush Administrations August 17 directive. The Bush regulation 
would make it harder for states to continue covering children above 250 percent of the poverty level. 
In New Jersey, the eligibility level is up to 350 percent. The Government Accountability Office 
and Congressional Research Service have both issued reports finding that the Bush Administration 
violated federal law when they issued the regulation. The Childrens Health Insurance Program 
(CHIP) provides health insurance for low income children whose parents cannot afford to buy private 
insurance and earn too much money to qualify for Medicaid. This program provides coverage to 6 million 
children across the nation. Last year, President Bush vetoed a bill to extend CHIP despite bipartisan 
support from Congress. The bill would have made health insurance available to more children in 
New Jersey and across the nation.  
