  Lautenberg Amendment 
to STOP U.S. Companies from Doing Business With Terrorist States Killed by Republican Leaders 
Republicans Side with Iran, North Korea Wednesday, May 19, 2004 WASHINGTON, DC - During consideration 
of the Defense Spending bill for FY 2005, Republicans killed United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg's 
(D-NJ) amendment that would dry up the money flow funding terror sponsoring states. The Lautenberg 
amendment would have closed a loophole in U.S. sanctions law that is currently allowing U.S. companies 
to do business with rogue states designated as sponsors of terrorism through foreign subsidiaries. 
"The Republican leaders decided to kill legislation that would have taken money out of the hands 
of terrorists; plain and simple," said Senator Lautenberg. "I don't imagine too many families 
who lost loved ones on 9-11 or in Iraq would understand why the Republicans want U.S. companies to 
do business with countries that fund and support terrorists bent on killing Americans." Currently, 
U.S. sanctions provisions in the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) prohibit 
U.S. companies from conducting business with nations that sponsor terrorism. Yet a few U.S. companies 
have exploited a loophole in the law by creating foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies to do business 
with rogue, terror-sponsoring nations such as Iran. "President Bush said that Iran is part of the 
Axis of Evil, yet his Administration continues to allow U.S. companies to do business with the Iranian 
government through foreign subsidiaries," noted Senator Lautenberg, "We need to shut down a loophole 
and put teeth in our sanctions laws." The Lautenberg amendment redefines corporate entities subject 
to U.S. sanction law to include not only U.S. companies and all foreign branches, but also foreign 
subsidiaries controlled over 50 percent by their parent American company. Under this amendment, 
when the President invokes U.S. sanctions, foreign subsidiaries will be barred from commercial 
transactions with terrorist sponsoring states under the same standards as their parent companies. 
The amendment would allow U.S. companies up to 90 days to divest their majority share in the foreign 
subsidiary doing business with those countries that sponsor terrorism. 

