  Lautenberg Blasts 
Efforts to Immunize Gun Industry from the Law, Vows to Fight NRA Sponsored Bill Monday, April 28, 
2003 CAMDEN, N.J. â During an event with a group of gun safety advocates this afternoon in Camden, 
New Jersey, United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg delivered the following remarks on the Republican 
attempts to pass legislation immunizing negligent gun dealers and manufactures from civil law 
suits. Lautenberg is leading the fight to stop this measure from passing the Senate. "This past 
month, the House of Representatives voted to immunize the gun industry, gun dealers, and even the 
NRA from liability for their misdeeds. It is amazing that such a bad bill could get through a house 
of Congress. What the House of Representatives is saying is that no matter how reckless the gun industry 
acts, they will not be held accountable for their behavior. So the victims of the DC-area sniper 
would be blocked from suing the gun dealer where the snipers mysteriously obtained their rifle. 
That gun shop, called "Bulls-Eye" in Tacoma, Washington, claims that it "lost" the rifle around 
the time sniper suspect Lee Malvo was in the shop. Malvo was too young to legally purchase a gun. But 
somehow he walked out with the gun. It turns out that this gun shop has "lost" hundreds of guns over 
the last few years. But the current lawsuit by sniper victims against Bulls Eye would be blocked 
by this gun immunity legislation. No other industry would enjoy such blanket immunity. It is outrageous. 
And there is no justification for it.Legitimate claims are being made against gun manufacturers, 
dealers, and others for negligent and reckless acts that circumvent the law in order to funnel guns 
to an illegal market. These dangerous practices by the gun industry endanger the safety all of our 
communities. Despite the NRA claims, these lawsuits against the gun industry are not frivolous 
at all â far from it. These are valid claims against wrongdoing by an industry that puts profit ahead 
of human life. The reality is that the gun industry engages in improper conduct with deadly consequences. 
We have seen many examples of this: Corrupt dealers who frequently sell to criminals â they would 
be immune; Straw purchasers who work with rogue dealers to obtain guns for people who are not eligible 
to buy guns â they would be immune; Dealers who engage in large-volume sales, such as an Illinois 
dealer who sold sixty "Saturday Night Special" handguns to one customer â that dealer would be 
immune for his reckless acts; And of course there is the problem of gun shows, where criminals and 
terrorists can buy guns without background checks. As many of you know, the Senate passed my gun 
show amendment with the help of Vice President Gore in 1999, but House Republicans killed the provision 
in conference. If the NRA Immunity bill is signed into law, victims of industry recklessness will 
be denied their day in court. I promise you that if that House bill comes to the Senate, I will do all 
I can to block it. It is an unconscionable piece of legislation. It puts a single interest ahead of 
the public interest and that's wrong. In this Congress, I am going to continue to push common sense 
gun safety measures â and I will fight any attempt to immunize the industry. As most of you know, 
I have fought the gun lobby for many years. And every time I would introduce reasonable legislation 
to prevent guns from getting in the hands of criminals and terrorists, the NRA would distort the 
facts about my bill. And now, the gun industry is distorting the facts about the lawsuits they face 
because of their reckless and negligent acts. Well, as you will hear , these are real suits, 
involving real people, with real allegations of wrongdoing. Like all Americans, they deserve 
their day in court. And I will fight to preserve those rights."  
