  Lautenberg Stands 
Up to Gun Industry  United States Senator Frank 
Lautenberg (D-NJ) signed on with Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) and several gun safety organizations 
to announce their intention to hold the gun industry accountable for their wrongdoing, and protect 
the rights of victims of gun violence. Lautenberg pledged his support to stop any measure that would 
immunize gun makers and dealers from liability for violence and injury caused by firearms. "These 
brave New Jersey police officers suffered harm because of the negligent actions of the gun industry," 
said Lautenberg. "When these dealers and manufacturers don't act responsibly, they must be held 
accountable. I will work with my colleagues to block any effort on the Senate floor to give the gun 
industry a free pass." The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which was introduced last 
year, will likely be offered this Congress as well. The bill would block certain lawsuits against 
gun manufacturers, gun dealers, the NRA and other gun interests, immunizing them from lawsuits 
that claim their negligence led to death or injury. It would only allow civil lawsuits against gun 
interests if the gun maker, dealer or trade association actually engages in a criminal act. Two 
police officers from Orange, New Jersey, David Lemongello and Kenneth McGuire filed a lawsuit 
last fall against the gun maker Sturm Ruger and a gun dealer, alleging that the gun dealer and maker's 
negligence resulted in them being shot and seriously wounded while on duty. The officers were shot 
with a 9mm semi-automatic pistol that was originally sold by the gun dealer to a gun trafficker. 
Lautenberg is one of the strongest proponents for comprehensive gun safety measures, and will 
continue to fight for legislation that keeps guns out of the hands of children and criminals, bans 
assault weapons, and enforces current gun laws to ensure that such horrific incidents as Columbine 
and the recent Washington area sniper attacks don't happen again.  
