 
More Than $7.2 Million for NJ Water and Land Conservation Projects Signed into Law, Heads to NJ Funds 
Included in FY 2008 Omnibus Bill Signed by President 
January 2, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), a member of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee,  announced with Sen. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) that a bill including more than $7 
million in federal funding they secured for water and land conservation programs was signed by 
the President and will be delivered to New Jersey. The Appropriations legislation, which Sen. 
Lautenberg helped craft in committee, was approved by the House and the Senate and signed by the 
President last week. By preserving our natural resources and protecting our water supply, these 
funds will help keep New Jersey communities safe, clean and healthy, said Sen. Lautenberg. The 
funding in this bill is vital to the environmental and economic health of the Garden State. These 
funds will help ensure the future of New Jerseys natural resources, said Sen. Menendez. They will 
help programs across our great state to make sure our families have access to clean water, to protect 
our wild lands, and to keep New Jersey clean and beautiful. These funds were included as part of the 
FY 2008 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Sen. Lautenberg is a member of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee and helped craft these provisions. The organizations receiving funding in the Department 
of the Interior portion of the Omnibus spending package are: $393,760 for the Bayonne Municipal 
Utilities Authority in Bayonne for upgrades to the wastewater/stormwater sewer system; $295,320 
to Kearny Township for a new pumping station; $492,2000 to the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commission 
for wastewater treatment plant upgrades; $196,880 to Pennsauken Township for a water management 
study; $2,461,000 to the New Jersey Highlands Coalition for the Sparta Mountain South Forest Legacy 
Project in Sussex County; $1,181,280 for land conservation in the Great Swamp National Wildlife 
Refuge; $1,722,700 (shared by New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut) for land conservation 
as part of the Highlands Conservation Act; and $492,200 to the New Jersey Audubon Society for land 
acquisition in the Cape May National Wildlife Refuge.  
