  N.J. Senators: 
Airplane Inspections Yet Another Issue the FAA Must Address Before Hold of Nominee Will Be Released 
Sens. Lautenberg & Menendez Have Blocked Confirmation Due to Litany of Issues Involving Safety 
and Efficiency in NJ Airspace as neglect of airline inspections took center stage at a Congressional 
hearing, U.S. Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) say they are adding it 
to the list of issues the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) must resolve before they would 
consider lifting their holds on the nomination for FAA Administrator. The senators announced 
in February that they were placing holds on the nomination of FAA Acting Administrator Robert Sturgell 
to be the permanent Administrator, citing his agencys lack of action on a number of air safety and 
efficiency concerns, particularly within the congested New Jersey airspace. Major changes are 
needed at the FAA. The recent safety problems are just the latest evidence that new leadership and 
strong enforcement of our safety laws are needed to make air travel safe for passengers, Senator 
Lautenberg said. The problem is that the Bush Administrations FAA has too often chosen airlines 
over passengers and the public, whether its failing to inspect their planes, allowing them to over-schedule 
flights or redesigning the flight patterns over New Jersey. As the FAAs second-in-command, Mr. 
Sturgell helped create many of these poor policies and he must be held accountable. The Federal 
Aviation Administration has lost focus of its mission, said Senator Menendez. It needs a serious 
reminder that it exists to the keep to flying public safe, not to get cozy with the airlines. The list 
of major concerns that this out-of-touch agency must address just keeps on growing. The common 
thread though all of these problems is a lack of leadership at the agency. I will make sure that Mr. 
Sturgells nomination does not see the light of day until this list of issues is addressed. s 
hearing in the House Transportation Committee included whistleblowers testifying that Southwest 
Airlines was permitted to skip inspections of aircraft because of a close relationship with certain 
FAA officials. Among the issues that the New Jersey senators raised when the hold was first placed 
on Sturgell were: Airspace redesign without listening to public feedback, the FAA rushed into 
a plan for new flight paths into and out of Newark Liberty International Airport and Philadelphia 
International Airport that promises to increase the noise level for thousands of New Jersey residents 
without substantially reducing flight delays. Air traffic controllers there is serious concern 
that the not enough air traffic controllers with the experience necessary to manage the nations 
busiest airspace are on staff in the region, but the FAA has only attempted to justify the staffing 
levels rather than remedying them. Near misses reports of near misses on the runway at Newark and 
in the air are increasing, which was underscored by a Government Accountability Office report 
Senator Lautenberg requested that showed that Newark has among the most runway incursions in the 
nation. Minimum fuel landings both Senators wrote the FAA last year about reports of a dramatic 
increase in flights coming in to Newark with only a minimum amount of fuel left in the tank, but the 
FAA still has not been able to produce statistics or an adequate answer. 

