  Legislative Accomplishments 
For Senator Lautenberg & New Jersey In July A Look Back at Lautenberg Achievements in July 

R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) achieved a string of successes in Congress during the July work period, from 
increasing safety on our railroads and at train stations, to protecting students on college campuses 
and compensating victims of terrorism. We delivered real results for families in New Jersey and 
across the nation in July, Sen. Lautenberg said. From providing justice to victims of Libyan terror, 
to making our rail lines more secure and improving campus fire safety for students and their families, 
this work will have a real impact on our residents. Among the accomplishments: Holding Libya Accountable 
for Its Terror: Both the Senate and House pass a bill sponsored by Lautenberg to . This sets up a final 
settlement agreement for Libya to resolve all outstanding U.S. terrorism claims, including the 
1988 Pan Am 103 bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed 270 people including 38 from New 
Jerseyand the 1986 Labelle discotheque bombing in Berlin, Germany. Earlier this year, Senator 
Lautenberg wrote a law banning foreign aid to Libya until these victims are repaid. Lautenberg 
also has a hold on the appointment of an ambassador to Libya. Protecting Our Railroads and Train 
Stations: The Senate passes legislation that Lautenberg wrote to make . Lautenbergs Railroad 
Safety Enhancement Act (S.1889), which reauthorizes rail safety programs for the first time since 
1994, requires more rest time for train crews, new safety technology on trains and improved visibility 
for drivers and pedestrians near train crossings. Cleaning Up the Waste at Rail Stations: The Senate 
Appropriations Committee approves a Lautenberg provision which extends temporary . On August 
1, the Senate passes Lautenberg legislation to allow states to permanently regulate these facilities. 
The legislation, based on Lautenbergs Clean Railroads Act (S.719) is included Lautenbergs Senate-passed 
rail safety bill (see above). Making Campus Fire Safety Information Public: The Senate passes 
a Lautenberg measure to provide students and families with crucial fire safety records of colleges 
and universities. The Lautenberg bill (S. 354), was included in a larger higher education reauthorization 
bill (H.R. 4137), and would . The House of Representatives had already passed their version of the 
Campus Fire Safety Right-to-Know Act, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ-08). 
Compensating our Service Members: Lautenberg introduces a bill with Rep. Betty Sutton (D-OH-13) 
to compensate troops affected by stop loss, a policy that involuntarily extends military service 
beyond an enlistment contract. The Stop Loss Compensation Act (S. 3060) would require the Pentagon 
to . Securing Funds for New Jersey: The Senate Appropriations Committee approves more than $527 
million for , projects in New Jersey. The projects for New Jersey, which were supported by Sens. 
Lautenberg and Menendez, include $75 million for the Trans-Hudson Midtown Tunnel, more than $1 
million for the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail, $76 million for Picatinny Arsenal and $10 million for 
flood control in Bound Brook.  
