  Lautenberg Applauds 
Expansion of State's Toxic Catastrophe Prevention Program State First in Nation to Have Reactive 
Chemical Program Tuesday, August 5, 2003 Washington, D.C. â United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg 
(D-NJ)  applauded the expansion of New Jersey's Toxic Catastrophe Prevention Act (TCPA) 
program to provide greater protection for residents living near industrial facilities. Lautenberg 
has long been a national leader in pollution prevention. He wrote the law encouraging industry 
to reduce their use of dangerous chemicals by requiring EPA to establish a Pollution Prevention 
Program. In 1986, he wrote the Community Right-to-Know law, which empowered citizens with information 
and helped reduce chemical releases by nearly 50 percent, and he also led the effort to create the 
Chemical Safety Board. He has led efforts to clean up toxic waste sites and hold corporate polluters 
accountable by beefing up funding for Superfund and Brownfield sites, and has tightened regulations 
to protect our air and drinking water. Lautenberg is spearing-heading the Senate bill to re-instate 
the Superfund Polluter Pays tax as well as pushing for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
to reverse the Bush Administration's assault on the environment. "When corporations fail to accept 
their responsibility to protect citizens from the toxic chemicals that they use and produce, the 
government must step in and force them to do so," said Lautenberg. "Because of the assault by the 
Bush Administration on our nation's environment and its inexcusable rollback of regulations 
on big chemical companies, the State  has stepped up to do something about it." DEP has formally 
added reactive chemicals to the list of extraordinarily hazardous substances that trigger risk 
management planning requirements of TCPA. These chemicals can explode when accidentally exposed 
to air or water, or when they are improperly mixed with certain other chemicals. The force of the 
explosion can kill or permanently disable people outside the facility. New Jersey will require 
companies handling reactive chemicals to prepare accidental release prevention plans and examine 
safer technologies to prevent industrial incidents like the tragic ones that occurred at Napp 
Technologies in Lodi in 1995 and at Morton International in Paterson in 1998. The Napp and Morton 
International accidents were the result of reactive chemistry interactions. "This expansion 
will increase the safety of these facilities and go a long way at decreasing the frightening risks 
these chemicals pose to families that live and work in the area," Lautenberg said. "I've spent my 
public life fighting against corporate polluters and fighting for the people they've hurt with 
the poisons they've released into our communities, and I plan to continue this fight." Questions 

