  NJ Senators: Bush 
Environment, Energy Budget Fails Garden State New Jersey Lawmakers Release Analysis of Bush Budget 
Impact on Garden State Environment D.C. U.S. Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ)  released 
their assessment of the Bush environment budget and its impact on the Garden State. Their analysis 
uncovered budget cuts to critical programs geared toward making our communities and homes more 
energy efficient, as well as the Bush Administrations plans to block efforts to fight global warming. 
President Bush has proposed a budget that would put our environment in serious danger. In addition 
to reducing funding for the programs that protect our air, water and climate, this budget simply 
dismisses the issue of global warming, said Lautenberg. I will fight for more funding to protect 
our environment and keep our air and drinking water clean, and our state safe from dangerous toxic 
materials. The more the administration falls behind in addressing the climate crisis, the more 
we will see devastating floods, disastrous storms and an erosion of the Jersey Shore, said Senator 
Menendez. This budget fits an administration that has done as little as possible to address our 
environmental challenges, and it would take badly-needed resources away from environmental 
programs in New Jersey. I will stand up to protect the land, water and air in our state. President 
Bushs proposed budget has the lowest level of overall funding for natural resources and the environment 
since 2001, and the Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) budget would be cut by $330 million 
from last years levels. New Jersey and other states are hit particularly hard by major cuts to EPAs 
grant programs, which are essential to ensure that our communities have safe water, clean air, 
and are free from hazardous waste. While New Jersey has the most Superfund sites in the country, 
the Bush administration has dramatically slowed the pace of cleaning them up. In the late 1990s, 
more than 80 sites were finished each year. However, the Bush Administration was only able to finish 
24 sites in 2007, and with funding for Superfund cleanup reduced by $700 million in the Presidents 
budget, it is likely that the slow pace of cleanup will continue. The budget slashes the Clean Water 
State Revolving Fund by nearly $135 million from last years levels, which would cut funding to New 
Jersey by $5.5 million. These critical funds help communities upgrade their infrastructure and 
ensure water used for drinking, swimming and other recreation are free of untreated sewage and 
other contaminants. Sens. Lautenberg and Menendez, both members of the Senate Budget Committee, 
pledged to work within the Congressional budget process to ensure New Jerseyans are not forced 
to endure the major cuts proposed by President Bush. Presidents FY2009 Environment Budget: 
Undermining Protections, Putting Families At Risk The Presidents budget for FY2009 once again 
calls for an overall cut to federal spending on clean air, clean water, land conservation, and other 
environmental programs. New Jersey and other states are hit particularly hard by major cuts to 
EPAs grant programs, which are essential for ensuring that our communities have safe water, clean 
air and are free from hazardous waste. The Presidents FY08 Budget: v Proposes to drill for oil in 
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) v Sells off public land in order to marginally reduce 
the deficit v Eliminates programs to help low-income Americans combat heating costs v Sharply 
cuts environmental grants to states v Slows the pace of toxic site cleanups v Underfunds efforts 
to combat climate change PUTTING CLEAN AIR AND CLEAN WATER AT RISK v Cuts Funding for Clean Water 
in Communities. The budget slashes the Clean Water State Revolving Fund by nearly $135 million 
from last years levels, which would cut funding to New Jersey by $5.5 million. These critical funds 
help communities upgrade their infrastructure and ensure water used for drinking, swimming and 
other recreation are free of untreated sewage and other contaminants. In addition, the budget 
proposes to cut the Nonpoint Source grant program for the fifth year in a row, which could result 
in New Jersey getting less money to control polluted runoff into streams, rivers, and lakes. v Eliminating 
the Targeted Watershed Program. The Presidents budget completely eliminates EPAs Targeted Watershed 
program, which provides grants to encourage successful community-based approaches and techniques 
to ensuring healthy and clean watersheds. In the past five years, New Jersey has received more than 
$2.5 million from this program to help protect the Raritan River, Passaic River, and Lake Hopatcong 
watersheds. v Reduces Funding for Clean Air. President Bushs budget aims to reduce the funding 
for the Clean Air Act in FY2009, by $23 million, a potential 7.5-percent decrease in funding for 
New Jersey to combat air pollution and the hazards resulting from climate change. This marks a consistent 
downward funding trend in the Presidents budget. DOES NOT LOOK FORWARD TO A SMART ENERGY FUTURE 
v Ignores Global Warming. The President has been slow to acknowledge the need to combat global warming, 
and this budget reflects that. In addition to reducing funding to the Climate Protection Program, 
the President proposes to eliminate funding to simply measure Americas greenhouse gas emissions. 
Also, the President has proposed to slash the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program budget 
by almost 30 percent and cut solar energy research by more than $10 million. This is a significant 
blow to New Jersey, which is second only to California in the number of solarinstallations. Despite 
some promising comments at the State of the Union, it is clear President Bush does not understand 
the urgency or the scale of the energy and environmentalchallenges we face. v Fewer Resources to 
Help with Skyrocketing Home Heating Costs. The budget calls for eliminating weatherization programs 
that are currently funded at over $220 million. For New Jersey this would constitute a loss of more 
than $4.5 million in funding that helps lower energy bills by increasing the energy efficiency 
of low?income homes. Weatherization permanently reduces heating bills by 20 to 40 percent for 
low?income families. The budget also cuts the Low?Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) 
by 22 percent, which will mean more than 150,000 families in New Jersey will have to forgo $17 million 
in home heating assistance. v Promoting Irresponsible Drilling. The Presidents budget calls 
for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). This land, which is home to countless 
species, is a unique and important area, and faces a major threat from drilling and oil spills. UNDERMINING 
CONSERVATION EFFORTS v Shortchanges Recreation and Conservation. For the sixth straight year, 
the President is trying to cut the Land and Water Conservation Fund and eliminate state grants, 
which provide money for conservation activities throughout New Jersey. Over the last 40 years, 
New Jersey has received more than $330 million from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which 
has helped create the Delaware Water Gap and Gateway National Recreation Areas, the Cape May and 
Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuges, Morristown and Edison National Historic sites, and hundreds 
of state and municipal parks, ball fields, playgrounds, and golf courses throughout the state. 
v Puts our Forests at Risk. The budget proposes to cut the Forest Services Forest Legacy program 
by over 75 percent, from $52 million in FY2008 to $12.5 million in FY2009. The Forest Legacy program 
has allowed for the purchase and protection of over 4,100 acres of forest in New Jersey, but without 
proper funding, thousands of acres in the Sparta Mountain South region will remain unprotected. 
v Shortchanges our Wildlife Refuges. The Presidents budget flatlines the funding for the National 
Wildlife Refuge system. With New Jerseys refuges facing major budgetary shortfalls, resulting 
in lack of proper staffing, leaving funding flat poses a major risk to New Jerseys pristine refuges. 
KEEPING TOXINS IN OUR COMMUNITIES v Allows Companies to Dodge Cleanup Costs. The Bush Administration 
has again refused to reinstate the polluter pays tax on chemical and oil companies to pay for cleanup 
of the nations worst hazardous waste sites, which means taxpayers will continue to pay a larger 
share for cleanups. v Slows Cleanup of Contaminated Sites. New Jersey has the most Superfund sites 
in the country, but the administration has dramatically slowed the pace of cleaning them up. In 
the late 1990s, over 80 sites were finished each year. The Bush administration has only finished 
cleaning 24 sites in 2007, and with funding for Superfund cleanup reduced by $700 million in the 
Presidents budget, it is likely that the slow pace of cleanup will continue. v Failing to Ensure 
Environmental Justice. The budget proposes to cut EPAs Environmental Justice program by 67 percent, 
which will make it tougher for low-income and minority communities to fix situations where they 
are disproportionately affected by pollution. New Jersey has been one of the key battlegrounds 
in the fight for environmental justice.  
