  Lautenberg, Brown 
Introduce Bill To Protect Health Care For Children With Chronic And Life-Threatening Illnesses,
U.S. Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), introduced the Childrens Health 
Protection Act of 2008, which would ensure that children suffering from chronic, debilitating 
and life threatening illnesses have access to comprehensive and affordable health care coverage. 
Companion legislation has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Rep. Allyson 
Schwartz (D-PA). We need to do all we can to keep our children healthy, especially for those suffering 
from chronic or life-threatening illnesses. Children deserve full access to a doctor in their 
community and the medicine they need to get healthy. Our bill is a critical step in making sure all 
children get the health care they need, Sen. Lautenberg said. Children with serious medical conditions 
should not be cherry-picked out of their health insurance policies while their families struggle 
to provide care and pay medical bills, said Sen. Brown. The Childrens Health Protection Act would 
prevent insurers from blocking children who need medical care the most. The current health care 
system must be fixed: we cannot deny health coverage to those children most in need those with health 
conditions or other illnesses. Our plan, the Childrens Health Protection Act of 2008, is a much 
needed, common-sense measure to fix a failed policy that has allowed the insurance industry to 
deny millions of children the health care they need and deserve. I thank Senators Lautenberg and 
Brown for working with me as we join to pass this important bill, and move closer to ensuring that 
ever American child has access to affordable, quality health coverage, Rep. Schwartz said. The 
Lautenberg-Brown bill would eliminate a provision in federal law that permits children with pre-existing 
conditions to be denied health coverage for up to 12 months if they have been without coverage for 
more than 63 days. The bill would prohibit employers and insurers from imposing pre-existing condition 
limitations on children up to age 19. This would prevent any more children from becoming uninsurable 
for their pre-existing conditions. Twenty percent of school-aged children suffer from a chronic 
illness. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 allowed children to 
be denied health care coverage due to a pre-existing condition, such as diabetes or cancer, under 
private health insurance if they went without coverage for more than two months. The Lautenberg-Brown 
bill would eliminate this provision. Sens. Lautenberg and Brown and Rep. Schwartz have been strong 
advocates for expanding childrens health care. The three cosponsored legislation re-authorizing 
the Childrens Health Insurance Plan (CHIP), which would maintain health coverage for 6.6 million 
children nationwide and add four million low-income, uninsured children to the program. 
