  Lautenberg: HHS 
Secretary Thompson Puts His Staff in Jeopardy as He Rejects Request to Suspend Medicare Ad Campaign 
Until GAO Determines its Legality HHS Disbursing Staff Could Be Held Personally Liable to Repay 
U.S. Taxpayers  United States Senator Frank R. 
Lautenberg (D-NJ)  informed the top disbursing officer at the Department of Health and Human 
Services (HHS) that he or members of his staff could be personally liable for the reimbursement 
to the US Treasury for the entire $22.6 million cost of the Medicare advertising campaign if the 
General Accounting Office (GAO) concludes the ads do violate the law. In a letter sent  to Mr. 
Kerry Weems, the Acting Assistant Secretary for Budget, Technology and Finance at the Department 
of Health and Human Services, US Senator Lautenberg wrote: "Under Title 31 of the United States 
Code, if the GAO determines the above-referenced disbursements to be illegal, the officer at HHS 
who signed any certificate, voucher or other record of disbursing authority could be personally 
liable to the United States Treasury to repay the fundsâ¦â¦This morning, we were informed 
that Secretary Thompson has rejected a request by 72 Members of Congress to suspend the Medicare 
campaign until the GAO rules on its legality. Thus, it is clear that you and your staff will be asked 
to continue to engage in activity that could subject you to substantial personal liability." "It 
is extremely unfair for political appointees at HHS to require dedicated career employees to put 
their personal assets at risk in order to facilitate potentially illegal activity at the agency," 
said Lautenberg. Under questioning  during an appearance in front of the Senate Budget Committee, 
Secretary Thompson said he would take another look at the ads. However, officials from Secretary 
Thompson's office informed Senator Lautenberg this morning of the Secretary's decision to reject 
the request by 73 members of Congress to halt the Medicare advertising campaign until the General 
Accounting Office (GAO) concludes its inquiry into the legality of the ads. "Using taxpayers' 
dollars to promote the president's campaign is the most egregious violation of the public's trust," 
said Lautenberg. "To make matters worse, they are misleading our nation's seniors in the process." 
 
