  Republican Leadership 
Kills Lautenberg Amendment to Provide $100 Million for Important Coast Guard Duties Monday, September 
13, 2004 WASHINGTON, DC â During debate last night over the Homeland Security funding bill for 
next year (FY-05), the Republican leaders killed Senator Frank R. Lautenberg's amendment to ensure 
the Coast Guard has the necessary funding to adequately perform its duties. The amendment would 
have increased funding by $100 million. "The Republican leadership has only weakened the Coast 
Guards' ability to carry of its traditional functions by killing this measure to provide adequate 
funding for vital programs such as illegal drug interdiction," said Senator Lautenberg. "The 
war on drugs is still an uphill battle and  the Republicans gave the drug lords even more opportunity 
to flood the streets of America with dangerous, addictive and illegal drugs." The Government Accountability 
Office (GAO) has found that Coast Guard effort on fishing enforcement activities is down 16 percent. 
Search-and-rescue is down 22 percent. And interdiction of illegal drugs is down 44 percent. GAO 
has found that non-homeland security budgets have been raided to cover security costs during times 
of elevated alert status. "This measure would have provided the Coast Guard additional resources 
to work on oil pollution, marine safety, improved fisheries enforcement and work to find alternatives 
to double-hull vessel designs; all issues extremely vital to New Jersey," said Lautenberg. "Coastal 
states all suffered  as a result of the Republican leadership's efforts to successfully kill 
this amendment." Lautenberg's amendment was endorsed by the following organizations: American 
Fisheries Society â¢ Fisheries Conservation Foundation American Fisherman's Research Foundation 
â¢ National Marine Manufacturers Association Fisherman's Marketing Association â¢ National 
Fisheries Institute â¢ American Sport fishing Association Boat Owners Association of the United 
States.  
