  Lautenberg, Corzine, 
Andrews, LoBiondo Ask Army to Extend Comment Period on Proposed Treatment of Chemical Warfare 
Poison at New Jersey Facility Wednesday, January 14, 2004 United States Senator Jon S. Corzine 
(D-N.J.), joined by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) and Representatives Rob Andrews (D-1st 
Dist.) and Frank LoBiondo (R-2nd Dist.)  asked the Department of the Army to extend the comment 
period for its proposed awarding of a contract to DuPont Chemical Company for the disposal of the 
byproduct of the chemical nerve agent VX. Acting on reports that DuPont's Chambers Works facility 
in Deepwater, Salem County, would be used to treat and dispose of byproducts of the chemical poison, 
the members of Congress said the public should be given a full opportunity to learn about and comment 
on the disposal plan. The Army will destroy stockpiles of the chemical nerve agent VX at the Army's 
Newport Chemical Depot in Indiana â where it is currently stored -- by mixing it with a caustic agent 
and hot water. Under the proposed contract, Dupont would then transport the destroyed VX to its 
Chambers Works Secure Environmental Treatment Unit in Deepwater, where it would be further neutralized 
and treated for disposal into the Delaware River. In a letter to Geoffrey Prosch, the assistant 
secretary of the Army for Installations and Environment, the senators and congressmen asked that 
a 30-day comment period be extended by at least another 45 days. "Our constituents have expressed 
deep concerns about this proposal and we request that their concerns be given a full hearing,'' 
the senators and congressmen wrote. "A 30-day comment period will not allow our constituents sufficient 
time to learn about this complex procedure, which involves one of the deadliest chemicals ever 
produced.'' The comment period is due to end Monday, January 19th. The senators and congressman 
noted that much of the 30-day period that ends on Monday occurred during the holiday season. Monday 
is also Martin Luther King Jr. Day, a federal holiday. "To their credit, DuPont has already begun 
public outreach, but when dealing with a chemical as hazardous as VX, our constituents also need 
adequate assurances about safety from the Army,'' the senators and congressmen wrote. "Rushing 
through the public comment period and failing to ensure adequate community consideration could 
result in far greater delays than the 45 days we are requesting,'' the senators and congressmen 
said.  
