  Lautenberg Secures 
Slots on Two Key Committees Vital to New Jersey and Nation Tuesday, January 14, 2003 Washington, 
D.C. â , the Senate adopted the organizing resolution for the 108th Congress. The passage 
of the resolution establishes committee assignments for this session, and United States Senator 
Frank Lautenberg will hold seats on two powerful committees important to New Jersey and the nation. 
Lautenberg has secured assignments to the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation 
Committee and the Committee on Governmental Affairs. "Transportation, commerce, jobs and homeland 
security are vital to each and every citizen of New Jersey," said Lautenberg after hearing the news 
of his new committee assignments. "Whether working to provide better rail service, improve aviation 
and port security or generate good paying jobs, I will fight each day for the working men and women 
of our great State." The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation has jurisdiction 
over a number of government agencies and functions important to New Jersey, including the Coast 
Guard, highway safety, interstate commerce, and marine navigation, including deepwater ports 
such as the New York - New Jersey Port. In addition, the Committee regulates all interstate common 
carriers, including railroads, buses, trucks, vessels, pipelines, civil aviation and telecommunications. 
The Committee on Governmental Affairs has jurisdiction over the entire federal civil service, 
which will include the newly created Department of Homeland Security. It will be the largest federal 
agency in history and the members of the Committee will have jurisdiction over virtually every 
aspect of the department, including port security, domestic intelligence and emergency services. 
The department will bring over 170,000 federal employees together from some 35 different agencies 
and departments. Senator Lautenberg is returning to the Senate for a 4th term. He is the first Senator 
from New Jersey to have held both seats, serving 18 years between 1983 and 2001 in the seat currently 
held by Senator Jon Corzine.  
