  Lautenberg and 
Kennedy Call on GAO to Determine Whether Education Dept. Violated Federal Laws by Commissioning 
Political Propaganda Study Bush Admin. Spent $700,000 in Taxpayer Dollars to Evaluate Public 
Image of President Bush and the Republican Party , 
United States Senators Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA) called on the 
Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate whether the Bush administration broke 
federal laws when the Department of Education used hundreds of thousands in taxpayer dollars for 
a political propaganda study. The study rated individual journalists and media outlets on whether 
their news reports painted the President's No Child Left Behind Act in a positive or negative light. 
One of the factors used to determine a "positive" story in the study was whether it conveyed that: 
"the Bush administration/the GOP is committed to education." "We believe, based on recent findings 
by GAO, that the Department of has violated the law prohibiting the use of appropriated taxpayer 
funds for publicity or propaganda purposes," wrote the lawmakers in their letter to GAO chief David 
M. Walker. "President Bush won't spend the money needed to fund the No Child Left Behind Act, but 
he seems to have no trouble using $700,000 in taxpayer's dollars to make sure he and his Party won't 
be hurt at the ballot box over their education policies," said Lautenberg. "Instead of using these 
funds for after school programs or tutoring services, the President used education funds to evaluate 
his own political prospects." "In a line that President Reagan made famous, 'There you go again.' 
The Bush Administration used taxpayer dollars to produce television political ads for their bad 
Medicare bill. Now they're at it again with their No Child Left Behind program," said Kennedy. "Instead 
of declaring 'Mission Accomplished' on education with taxpayer-paid propaganda, President 
Bush should use those funds to help the 4.6 million school children he's leaving behind. America's 
schoolchildren deserve better than phony political ads." "GAO has recently stated that "Appropriated 
funds may never be used 'in a general propaganda effort designed to aid a political party or candidate.'" 
A comprehensive, nationwide media study identifying journalists and news organizations writing 
favorable stories on President Bush and his political party's commitment to education has only 
a political purpose," noted Lautenberg and Kennedy in their letter to Mr. Walker. The letter sent 
to GAO accompanies this release, and documents verifying the PR campaign are available by calling 
Honorable David M. Walker Comptroller General of the 
United States Government Accountability Office 441 G Street NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Comptroller 
General Walker: We are writing to alert you to what we believe to be an illegal use of taxpayer funds 
by the U.S. Department of Education, and request an expedited legal decision from the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO) on the matter. We believe, based on recent findings by GAO, that the 
Department of Education (hereinafter "the Department") has violated the law prohibiting the 
use of appropriated taxpayer funds for publicity or propaganda purposes, as codified in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Resolution of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-7, Div. J, Tit. VI, § 626, 117 Stat. 11, 470 
(2003). As a result of this illegal use of public funds for "publicity and propaganda," the Department's 
actions also violated the Antideficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1341 et seq. These violations result 
from a contract awarded by the Department to Ketchum Incorporated (Ketchum) for the purpose of 
improving the public image of President Bush's "No Child Left Behind" Program. This contract at 
issue contains three separate violations of the laws referenced above. 1. Taxpayer-Funded Media 
Analysis Based on Partisan Political Factor Under its contract with the Bush Education Department, 
Ketchum engaged in a comprehensive, national media study that analyzed news coverage of the No 
Child Left Behind Law and ranked reporters according to the content of their articles. The Education 
Department financed study, called the "No Child Left Behind Benchmark Analysis," analyzed the 
coverage of various news outlets and individual journalists, and rated them in degrees of "positive" 
or "negative" reporting on the new law. The larger Ketchum report is divided into separate reports 
organized by time period (some reports represent individual months and some represent report 
multiple-month time periods). All of the reports contain a "Score Sheet" indicating the study's 
methodology. In this Score Sheet, which is used to evaluate individual media stories, eleven factors 
are listed as "Positive Messages." Each instance of a positive message is to be given five "points" 
plus a "bonus" of 10 points if there are more than three positive messages in a news story. Among the 
specific positive messages listed toward the five point and ten point bonus system is the following: 
"The Bush Administration/the GOP is committed to education." GAO has recently stated that "Appropriated 
funds may never be used 'in a general propaganda effort designed to aid a political party or candidate.'" 
A comprehensive, nationwide media study identifying journalists and news organizations writing 
favorable stories on President Bush and his political party's commitment to education has only 
a political purpose. There is no legitimate informational or policy reason for the Department 
of Education to be evaluating perceptions of the Republican Party or President Bush's strengths 
or weaknesses as a political candidate. Unlike prior cases reviewed by the GAO, the instant case 
involves taxpayer funds used for a study with a major evaluative factor that explicitly describes 
itself with partisan political purpose. As one of a handful of major factors used in this study, 
its use contaminates the entire study. Therefore, all funding funneled to Ketchum for the creation 
of this study violates the "publicity or propaganda" clause of the Consolidated Appropriations 
Resolution of 2003. 2. The Purpose of the Taxpayer-Funded Media Analysis is Self-Aggrandizement 
As the GAO has stated numerous times, taxpayer funds cannot be used by the Executive Branch for activities 
in which the "obvious purpose is 'self-aggrandizement' or 'puffery.'" Self-aggrandizement 
has been defined as "publicity of a nature tending to emphasize the importance of the agency or activity 
in question." Here, the Department has contracted for this study, which was solely focused on public 
perceptions of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB). With this study, the agency is trying to improve 
its own image and the image of its flagship program, No Child Left Behind. In its "Statement of Work" 
for this contract, Ketchum stated that its study would help develop grassroots campaigns that 
"would change the debate, build credibility, increase media coverage, and educate the public 
about education initiatives important to the Department." On page 1 of the "Technical Proposal" 
prepared for this contract, Ketchum explains the strategy of their work product: While the law 
is of special interest to parents, students, teachers, education advocates and state and local 
governments -- not everyone will immerse themselves in the minutiae of the law. But that won't stop 
well-intentioned folks from forming opinions based on what they may have heard or read in the media 
or from the "buzz" circulating among their colleagues and communities. So to ensure that the intent 
of NCLB is achieved, it is imperative that the Department of Education (ED) is able set [sic] the 
tone (and the terms) of the dialogue and communicate the value of NCLB to each of its most important 
constituencies. This focus on improving the image and "value" of the NCLB program and the "credibility" 
of the Department violates the GAO identified prohibition against self-aggrandizement. Ten 
of the eleven "Positive Messages" factors used to rate media stories in the report are based on the 
public's image of distinct facets of the NCLB program (the other factor focuses on the image of the 
Republican Party and President Bush, as discussed above.) 3. Video News Releases are Illegal "Covert 
Propaganda" Under the Bush Education Department - Ketchum contract, in addition to the study discussed 
above, Ketchum prepared and distributed video news releases (hereinafter "VNRs") for the Department. 
These releases clearly violate the legal standard described by GAO in its recent decision on VNRs 
produced by the Department of Health and Human Services (hereinafter "HHS".) In the HHS case, the 
GAO found that the VNRs violated the "publicity or propaganda" clause because neither the story 
packages nor the scripts identified HHS as the source of the material to the targeted television 
audience, and the content of the news reports were attributed to individuals posing as reporters. 
In this case, the facts are virtually identical to the HHS case, including the identity of the fake 
journalist, Karen Ryan. The Department of Education does not identify itself as the source of the 
reports to the audience. Karen Ryan, rather than the Bush Education Department, is identified 
as the source of the report. This VNR, like the HHS VNRs, constitutes illegal, "covert propaganda" 
as previously found by GAO. By using appropriated funds in violation of the "publicity or propaganda" 
clause, the Department has illegally spent taxpayer funds, thereby also violating the Antideficiency 
Act, 31 U.S.C. § 1341. Enclosed please find the contract, the study and other materials relevant 
to this matter. However, our copy of the materials was obtained from the Department through a Freedom 
of Information Act disclosure to a nongovernmental agency. Therefore, the documents are heavily 
redacted (for reasons that are unclear) and omit large amounts of information. We are hopeful that 
the GAO will be able to obtain these documents without such redaction. It is our understanding that 
this contract is valued at $700,000. We urge you to seek recovery of all public funds illegally appropriated 
by the Department. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter and we look forward to your 
decision on the legality of this conduct. Sincerely, FRANK R. LAUTENBERG EDWARD M. KENNEDY Questions 

