  Lautenberg Offers 
Amendment to Stop U.S. Companies from Doing Business with Terrorist States Amendment Pending 
to Defense Bill Monday, May 17, 2004 WASHINGTON, DC - During debate over the Fiscal Year 2005 Defense 
Authorization bill, United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) offered an amendment that 
would dry up the money flow funding terror sponsoring states. The Lautenberg amendment closes 
a loophole in U.S. sanctions law that is currently allowing U.S. companies to do business with rogue 
states designated as sponsors of terrorism through foreign subsidiaries. The amendment, co-sponsored 
by Senators Feinstein, Feingold, Clinton and Corzine, would force foreign subsidiaries that 
are majority controlled by their U.S. parent companies to abide by U.S. sanctions law. "President 
Bush said that Iran is part of the Axis of Evil, yet his Administration continues to allow U.S. companies 
to do business with the Iranian government through foreign subsidiaries," noted Senator Lautenberg, 
"We need to shut down a loophole and put teeth in out sanctions laws." Currently, U.S. sanctions 
provisions in the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)prohibit U.S. companies 
from conducting business with nations that sponsor terrorism. Yet a few U.S. companies have exploited 
a loophole in the law by creating foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies to do business with rogue, 
terror-sponsoring nations such as Iran. The Lautenberg amendment redefines corporate entities 
subject to U.S. sanction law to include not only U.S. companies and all foreign branches, but also 
foreign subsidiaries controlled over 50 percent by their parent American company. Under this 
amendment, when the President invokes U.S. sanctions, foreign subsidiaries will be barred from 
commercial transactions with terrorist sponsoring states under the same standards as their parent 
companies. The amendment gives U.S. companies' foreign subsidiaries 90 days to divest their business 
with terror sponsoring states and requires "We must tell both our friends and those who continue 
to sponsor terrorism that we are serious in our efforts to battle this evil," said Senator Lautenberg. 
"It is inexcusable for any U.S. companies to do business that puts money in the pockets of terrorists. 
We must stop it."  
