  Lautenberg Joins 
Colleagues in Filing Court Brief In Univ. of Michigan Affirmative Action Case Wednesday,  United States Senator R. Frank Lautenberg  joined eleven colleagues in filing an amicus brief in support of the University of Michigan's case before the United States 
Supreme Court. The brief supports the University of Michigan's affirmative action policies in 
a case pending before the United States Supreme Court. Lautenberg strongly believes that a diverse 
student body promotes civic participation and interaction of racial and ethnic groups and helps 
remove racial hostility and isolation on our nation's college campuses. "Many prominent Americans 
have benefited from policies that have given minorities the same opportunities in higher education 
as those afforded to white America," said Lautenberg. "We need to make sure diversity of all types 
is embraced at every college and university across the country." More than 60 Senators and Members 
of the House of Representatives have signed on to a number of briefs supporting the consideration 
of race and ethnicity to promote diversity at colleges and universities. Other Senators who joined 
the Daschle-Kennedy brief include Jon Corzine of New Jersey, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles 
Schumer of New York, John Kerry of Massachusetts, Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, Russ Feingold of 
Wisconsin, Richard Durbin of Illinois, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, and John Edwards of North Carolina. 
"We have seen what happens when affirmative action is eliminated in the admissions process. When 
the program was eliminated at the University of California's law schools the number of African 
Americans admitted dropped by more than 80 percent in one year alone," Lautenberg said. "That is 
a huge step back when we need to be moving forward to make this a country where everyone is truly equal." 
The brief submitted says the Supreme Court should reaffirm its conclusion in the Bakke case that 
colleges and universities have a "compelling interest'' in the educational benefits of diversity, 
and that racial and ethnic status can be one of many factors in deciding admission. 
