  Lautenberg Demands 
Investigation by USDA Into Allegations of Lax Beef Inspections at U.S. Facilities Mad Cow Disease 
Could be Concern if Allegations are True Wednesday, December 22, 2004 WASHINGTON, DC -- In a letter 
sent  to the Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg 
(D-NJ) called for an immediate investigation into reports by the media regarding failure of beef 
inspections to conform to USDA regulations, which could allow Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, 
or Mad Cow disease, into the nation's beef supply. "If these allegations are true, the Administration's 
negligence has placed the lives of millions in danger," said Lautenberg. "If this is true, this 
would be a fundamental failure by the Bush administration to protect the health of the American 
people, and it is completely unacceptable." In a letter earlier this month to the USDA, the National 
Joint Council of Food Inspection union alleged that materials, including spinal cords which carry 
Mad Cow disease, are indeed making it into the human food supply. Also, the union alleges that concerns 
by inspectors have been brushed off by supervisors. These allegations suggest that the inspectors 
are not being permitted to do their jobs to keep Americans safe. Lautenberg, in his letter to Secretary 
Veneman requested that the USDA conduct an investigation of all concerns raised in the federal 
inspectors union's letter. In addition, Lautenberg requested that the following reports presented 
recently in the media also be investigated: (1) incorrect age marking or identification of cow 
heads and carcasses over 30 months in age, (2) inadequate oversight of age checks, (3) packing of 
kidneys from cows over 30 months in age for shipment to Mexico, which prohibits such meat, and (4) 
any cases of refusal by USDA supervisors to investigate inspectors' concerns. "This failure suggests 
that Americans who eat beef could be at risk to contract Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), 
also known as "mad cow disease," wrote Lautenberg in his letter to Secretary Veneman. "I request 
that the USDA conduct an investigation into the allegations raised in the federal inspectors union's 
letter. In addition, I request that specific allegations reported recently in the media be investigated." 
 
