  Lautenberg Applauds 
Supreme Court Decision Upholding Affirmative Action for Law School Admissions Lautenberg Filed 
Amicus Brief Earlier This Year on Univ. of Michigan Case Monday, June 23, 2003 WASHINGTON D.C. â 
United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg  applauded the U.S. Supreme Court decision allowing 
colleges and universities to use race as a considering factor when making admissions decisions, 
acknowledging the need for affirmative action in order to ensure diversity and equality. In a 5 
to 4 decision written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the Supreme Court ruled that the University 
of Michigan law school did not violate the Equal Protections Clause when using race as one of several 
factors in the admissions process. The case brought before the Court was Grutter v. Bollinger. 
", America is a better place because the highest court in the land stood up for affirmative 
action and diversity," said Lautenberg. "The scars of racism are still present in this country 
and we must do whatever we can to ensure every American is afforded the opportunity to live out their 
dreams." Lautenberg, along with 11 of his Senate colleagues, submitted an amicus brief to the Supreme 
Court earlier this year that said the court should reaffirm its conclusion in the Bakke case that 
colleges and universities have a "compelling interest'' in the educational benefits of diversity, 
and that racial and ethnic status can be one of many factors in deciding admission. Lautenberg was 
disappointed that the University of Michigan's undergraduate policy was not upheld entirely, 
referring to the 6 to 3 decision on Gratz v. Bollinger. The University of Michigan used a point system 
that gave "specific" weight to minority applicants. The Court's decision has overturned that 
practice. "I hope the Bush Administration will follow the law and work with the Congress to support 
programs that promote racial and ethnic diversity in education, the military, employment and 
throughout our society," said Lautenberg.  
