  Lautenberg, Clinton 
Call For Investigation Into Reports Of Pentagon Manipulation Of Independent Military Analysts 
Senators Express Concern in Letter to Secretary Gates, DC Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Hillary Rodham Clinton 
(D-NY)  expressed serious concern about a recent report describing efforts by the Department 
of Defense (DOD) to influence the commentary of independent television military analysts. In 
a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the Senators said the report raised issues of credibility 
and trust at the Pentagon. They urged a full review of the matter, especially allegations that independent 
military analysts were pressured to speak positively about the Bush Administration or face potential 
loss of government contracts. This Administration has a history of pushing propaganda on the American 
public. We deserve unbiased facts and analysis of conditions around the world, free from public 
relations ploys. Reports that the Administration tried to control the information Americans 
were getting in the news, perhaps through the use of federal contracts, must be investigated, Sen. 
Lautenberg said. We face very serious challenges around the world and Americans need information 
they can trust to make their own informed judgments as citizens, said Sen. Clinton. It is unacceptable 
for federal contracts to be used as leverage in any way and a full investigation should be undertaken 
immediately. The text of the Senators letter is below. April 28, 2008 The Honorable Robert M. Gates 
Secretary of Defense The United States Department of Defense The Pentagon Suite 319 Washington, 
D.C. 20301 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing to express our very serious concern about a press report 
that the Department of Defense (DOD) hid behind an appearance of objectivity in a concerted media 
campaign that raises issues of credibility and trust at the Pentagon. It suggests an extensive, 
coordinated effort by the DOD and the Administration in a campaign they described as information 
dominance to try to influence the commentary of independent television military analysts. The 
report contains allegations that analysts who did not speak positively about the Administration 
were pressured or even punished. The report also raises serious questions about the potential 
linkage of government contracts to favorable public commentary by military analysts. After the 
real concerns raised by the information and intelligence provided by the Pentagon in the lead-up 
to the Iraq war, we believe that it is more incumbent on the DOD than ever to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety in how it portrays the Iraq war and our country's defense policy now. It is both appropriate 
and necessary to know to what extent the DOD may have directly or indirectly attempted to undermine 
the objectivity and accuracy of the military analysis presented to the American people as independent 
commentators, and to what extent decisions about military contracts were connected to this public 
relations effort. We respectfully request that you conduct a comprehensive review of your Departments 
public relations effort. Further, we request a full investigation from the Inspector General 
as soon as possible. Sincerely, Hillary Rodham Clinton Frank R. Lautenberg cc: Claude M. Kicklighter, 
Inspector General, U.S. Department of Defense  
