  Lautenberg to 
Introduce Legislation to Phase Out Liability Limits for Single Hull Vessels Responsible for Oil 
Spills Lautenberg, Corzine Tour Site of Oil Spill along Delaware River Tuesday, November 30, 2004 
NEWARK, N.J. -- Following this weekend's oil spill in the Delaware River that dumped over 42 thousand 
gallons of crude oil into the river, United States Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-N.J.) announced 
his intention to introduce legislation to phase out the cap on damages a company responsible for 
an oil spill is required to pay. The change would only apply to spills by single-hulled vessels, 
not the safer double-hulled vessels. "Oil companies that have decided not to change to safer double 
hulled vessels should not be immune from paying the entire cost when one of their ships dumps thousands 
of gallons of oil into our rivers," said Senator Lautenberg. "The law on the books is not doing enough 
to protect the environment and local businesses when an oil spill occurs." Senator Lautenberg's 
bill would phase out the current caps placed on damages for single hull oil tankers that cause an 
oil spill. (See attached fact sheet) The measure would push oil shippers to take the steps necessary 
convert their fleet from single-hull vessels to double-hull tankers which are far less likely 
to spill oil in the event of a collision. The liability cap for the Athos I spill is $45,474,000. Lautenberg 
announced his intention to introduce this legislation when the Senate convenes in early December 
to finish up some last minute business of the 108th Congress. The Oil Spill Liability Act of 2004 
To be introduced by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and Jon S. Corzine Senator Lautenberg will introduce 
new legislation to modify the liability limits authorized under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA), 
for parties responsible for an oil spill: The Lautenberg-Corzine bill will have two primary provisions: 
1. Phases out the liability cap in the case of single-hull tanker vessels The current OPA law requires 
all tankers to be double-hull by 2010, and grants an exception for some vessels until 2015. Many 
in the oil shipping industry have not yet even ordered double-hulls for their fleet. As a means to 
push the industry into investing in double-hulls sooner rather than later, this provision would 
phase out the liability cap for single-hull tankers. Currently, the liability of oil shippers 
are capped according to the formula described below. (The Athos I spill liability will be capped 
at $45,474,000 under this formula.) 2. Double the liability limits in current law for all other 
vessels and facilities Currently, liability limits are determined by a formula based on the size 
of the tanker or facility. This limit has at times been too low to require the responsible party to 
cover the full costs of the cleanup and the costs incurred by business hurt by the oil spill. The Current 
Oil Pollution Act of 1990 liability caps: â¢ Tank Vessel Greater Than 3000 Gross Tons: $1200 Per 
Gross Ton or $10 million, whichever is greater â¢ Tank Vessel 3000 Gross Tons or Less: $1200 per 
Gross Ton or $2 million, whichever is greater â¢ Other Vessel: $600 per Gross Ton or $500,000, 
whichever is greater â¢ Offshore Facility Except Deepwater Port: Total of All Removal Costs 
plus $75 million â¢ Onshore Facility or Deepwater Port: $350 million The Oil Pollution Act of 
1990 (OPA) was enacted in response to the Exxon Valdez spill off the coast of Alaska in March 1989. 
This spill of crude oil eventually covered over 10,000 square miles of ocean and dumped oil on some 
1500 miles of shoreline. OPA established a mechanism for the prevention and clean-up of oil spills. 
Senator Lautenberg was an original co-sponsor of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. He was also a member 
of the House-Senate conference on the legislation.  
